SEO (Search Engine Optimization) :

In simpler terms, Search Engine Optimization is a way to improve your website so that it will appear closer to the top positions in the search results of Google, Yahoo, Bing, or other search engines.

SEO has two main goals. The first is to help you understand what users are searching for online so that you can create high-quality content to satisfy their intent. The second is to help you create a website that search engines can find, index, and understand its content.

When you perform a search on Google the order by which the returning results are displayed, is based on complex algorithms.

These algorithms (also known as search engine ranking factors) take into account a number of rules before they decide which webpage will be shown in the first position, second position, etc.

Optimizing your website for search engines will give you an advantage over non-optimized sites and you increase your chances of ranking higher.


The importance of SEO are as follows:

1. The majority of search engine users (more than 70%  – see graph below) are more likely to click on one of the top 5 suggestions in the search engine results pages (SERPS). To take advantage of this and gain visitors to your website or customers to your online store, your website needs to appear in one of the top positions.

2.SEO is not only about search engines but good SEO practices improve the user experience and usability of a website.

3.Users trust search engines and having a presence in the top positions for the keywords the user is searching, increases the website’s trust.

4.SEO is good for the social promotion of your website. People who find your website by searching Google or Bing are more likely to promote it on Facebook, Twitter, or other social media channels.

5.SEO can put you ahead of the competition. If two websites are selling the same thing, the search engine optimized website is more likely to have more customers and make more sales.

6.SEO can help you reach a global audience. By optimizing for international SEO, you can expand your reach beyond your local market.